Awesome dev - Release of lesson version 1.0 (#1)
carpentries-incubator/scientific-metadata: episodes/getting-started.Rmd

---
title: 'Getting Started'
teaching: 2
exercises: 10
---
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: questions 

- What could the subject of the dataset be?
- What is challenging for understanding the data?

> - What would you have needed to draw conclusions on the data?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What makes understanding the data difficult?
- What additional information would have helped you to make sense of it?
```

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: objectives

- Getting familiar with the example dataset.

> - Facing a well-known challenge, when exploring a dataset. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Facing a common challenge when exploring an unknown dataset. 
```

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: challenge
## Challenge 0: What do you see?

> Your collaborators sent you a link to one of their tabular datasets with the request to inspect and comment on the data collected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your collaborators sent you a link to one of their tabular datasets with the request to inspect and comment on the collected data.
```

> - Download the data: <a href="./files/exampleDataObject.csv">exampleDataObject.csv</a> (.csv file, separator: ";") 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Download the data: <a href="./files/exampleDataObject.csv">exampleDataObject.csv</a> (CSV file, separator: ";") 
```

> - Download the data: <a href="./files/exampleDataObject.csv">exampleDataObject.csv</a> (.csv file, separator: ";") 

Reviewer 2: When opening the csv file the separator seems to be `,`. I don't know if this is a typo or if the link is pointing to the wrong file.

Author: ```suggestion
- Download the data: <a href="./files/exampleDataObject.csv">exampleDataObject.csv</a> (csv file, separator: ",") 
```

> - Open .csv with your day-to-day data tool (Python, MS Excel, R, Matlab, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Open the CSV file with your day-to-day data analysis tool (Python, MS Excel, R, Matlab, etc.)
```

- Inspect the data

- Ask yourself the following questions:
  - Do you get information out of the data?
  - Which challenges do you face?

>   - Is context missing?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Do you think that something is missing?
```

That the context i.e. metadata is missing is something they should figure out, so I would not put the word it their mouths.

> - Note your answers. We will discuss your statements in the lesson

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Write down your answers and impressions. You will have the opportunity to discuss them with everyone in the lesson.
```

The formulation sounds like it could be some kind of "test" and everyones answers will be evaluated. Suggestion makes it clear that it is a "brainstorming" thing.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: hint
**Important:** There is no right or wrong in this task. Just note down whatever comes to your mind!
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: instructor 

## Creator recommendation
This challenge is meant to get the learners into the mindset of the lesson by giving them a (usually) familiar problem: **unsufficiently annotated, uninterpretable data**.

Send this challenge to the learners before the lesson starts. During the warm-up and introduction session of your lesson, ask the learners to briefly share their experiences with the dataset. You can use the questions in the overview as a guideline.

> We recommend collecting the learners' statements in bullet points on a white board or shared document. After the introduction session, an adhoc summary of the statements can be used to lead over to the lesson topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend collecting the learners' statements in bullet points on a white board or in a shared document. After the introduction session, an ad-hoc summary of the statements can be used to lead over to the lesson topic.
```

> **The subject of the example data will be revealed after the introductory lecture on "What is data?" and bridges over to the topic of metadata.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The subject of the example data will be revealed after the introductory lecture on "What is data?", while bridging over to the topic of metadata.**
```

I guess its the "revealing" part that "bridges" over, not the "subject of the example data".
